# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
The Kickstarter Analysis was targeted towards analyzing data to present to a playwright who was hoping to launch a successful Kickstarter campaign to fund their own play, Fever. The estimated budget was over $10,000 to produce her own play and she was unsure whether this amount of funds could reasonably be raised. 
### Purpose
 By organizing, sorting, and analyzing  crowdfunding data to determine what factors make a campaign successful. To understand how campaigns become successful, it’s important to examine all factors that influence the outcome. By mirroring the factors that produced successful campaigns, it’s possible to set up a crowdfunding campaign that will succeed. 
## Analysis and Challenges
Through analysis of the data offered through the Kickstarter data, it’s easy to determine what factors can cause a theater campaign to be successful. Breaking down the categories of Kickstarters to only include theater and plays allowed the analysis of only the most relevant cases. Filtering the data in this way showed that the theater category of kickstarters were the most successful in Great Britain, the best month to launch would be May, and that campaigns with a median goal of $3,000 were more successful. There were some challenges with finding the average number of backers because of the inability to divide by 0, so the IFERROR formula had to be implemented to stop this from causing the data to be unreadable. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
There was a relationship between outcome and campaign launch date demonstrated when inputting the pivot table of all successful, failed, and canceled theater campaigns throughout the year into a line graph. Based on the line graph that came from analysis of theater campaign outcomes, it is shown that the most successful month to launch a Theater Kickstarter campaign is within the month of May. There is a tremendous spike of success, 111 campaigns, and then steadily declines in successfulness.
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
Each campaign has a specific goal that represents how much money they would have liked to raise. By examining the outcomes based on the goal amount set, there might be conclusions drawn about if they are related. The graph that was produced through this analysis doesn’t allow for any strong conclusions to be drawn. This highest percentage of success projects had goals of less than 5000, but there was a steady decline in successful outcomes as the campaign’s goal amount increased. There was a strange occurrence of the successfulness increasing between a goal amount of $35,000 and $44,999, but then it dramatically bottoms out at a higher goal. 
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
Challenges and Difficulties Encountered: There were specific issues with the production of the two outcome graphs for the launch date and the goal amount. For the launch date analysis, row labels were not displaying the month and instead were only displaying the quarters of the year. The quarters had to be deleted and then the row filter had to be used to select only the months. This rendered the needed format to create the line graph. The only other serious difficulty was creating the line graph based on the goal amount because the COUNTIFS formula was difficult to use when doing the goal ranges that required the entry of two goal amounts.
## Results
- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
The Outcomes based on Launch Date line graph allows for the conclusion that the most successful month for theater Kickstarters is within the month of May, which is followed by a steady decline. A person hoping to launch a successful Kickstarter should aim to launch it in May and should avoid launching any campaigns in the last 3 months of the year. The worst month to launch a campaign would be December because successful campaigns drop and equal the amount of failed ones. 
- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
It is extremely difficult to come to a conclusion based on the line graph that shows the Outcomes based on Goals. There is no real relationship demonstrated with the data because it lacks a linear nature. Although it lacks a clear linear nature, it possible to see that goals that are between $1,000 to $4,999 will lead to the highest success rate. 
- What are some limitations of this dataset?
The Kickstarter dataset has some limitations in the fact that the data has outliers that will pull the measures of central tendency to the extremes. This forces us to rely on the medians to understand the more reliable data. There are also outside forces that can affect the successfulness of a campaign, such as the amount of money spent on marketing and advertisements. The data set doesn’t include every factor that could affect success because this data only takes into account the easily measurable data points.
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
To analyze the data further, a graph that analyzes how Theater Kickstarters perform in different countries. This would allow for the playwright to understand which country would increase her successfulness. Another graph that could be created is one that demonstrates the outcomes based on campaign length. It might explain if a longer campaign can raise more money or if a shorter campaign can save the playwright more money. The usefulness of the data is tied to how it can benefit the consumer, so any table or graph that can increase their chance of being significantly more successful should be included. 
